What is meta-debian?
====================

meta-debian is a set of recipes (metadata) for the poky build system,
which allows cross-building GNU/Linux images using Debian source packages.
By enabling meta-debian, you can cross-build a small GNU/Linux image
with Debian sources for multiple architectures.

The main purpose of meta-debian is to provide reference Linux distribution
for embedded systems satisfying the following needs.

* Long-term support
* Stability
* Wide embedded CPU support
* Customizability

Currently, the following software versions are supported in meta-debian.

* Source code: Debian GNU/Linux 10 (buster)
* Build system: Yocto Project (master)

Quick Start
===========

meta-debian can be built in a docker container or on a Linux machine (native build).

### Setup build environment

Clone meta-debian:
```sh
$ git clone -b master https://github.com/meta-debian/meta-debian.git
```

* For docker build:
   ```sh
   $ cd meta-debian
   $ make -C docker
   ```

* For native build:

   * Install essential packages poky requires into your host system according to 
   <https://www.yoctoproject.org/docs/2.7/ref-manual/ref-manual.html#required-packages-for-the-build-host>

      ```sh
      $ sudo apt-get install gawk wget git-core diffstat unzip texinfo gcc-multilib \
      build-essential chrpath socat cpio python python3 python3-pip python3-pexpect \
      xz-utils debianutils iputils-ping
      ```

      NOTE: The following three packages have version limitation
      * git: 1.8.3.1 or greater
      * tar: 1.27 or greater
      * python: 3.4.0 or greater

   * Setup repositories

      ```sh
      $ git clone -b master git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky.git
      $ mv meta-debian poky/
      ```

### Build

```sh
export TEMPLATECONF=meta-debian/conf
source ./poky/oe-init-build-env
```

You can change the target machine by setting `MACHINE` variable
in `conf/local.conf` to one of the following machines.

* qemux86 (default)
* qemux86-64
* qemuarm
* qemuarm64
* qemuppc
* qemumips

For example, the target machine is set to QEMU ARM by adding
the following difinition to `conf/local.conf`.

```
MACHINE = "qemuarm"
```

Now, the build system is ready.
Build Linux kernel and the minimal rootfs by the following command.
It takes a while to complete (more than 30 minutes).

```sh
bitbake core-image-minimal
```

### Run the built Linux on QEMU

Please replace `${MACHINE}` by the target machine
you selected in the above step.

NOTE: Confirm that the tun module, which runqemu depends on,
is correctly loaded in your system.

```sh
runqemu ${MACHINE} nographic
```

After boot, you can login as `root` without password.
