Components
==========

To handle Debian package source code, `meta-debian` needs to provide
some extra functions/tasks. The following contents are not all but
main components which are defined and usually used in `meta-debian`.

Classes
-------

#### debian-package.bbclass
Class `debian-package` is inherited by recipes.
This class provides tasks to extract source code and apply Debian patches.

#### debian-source.bbclass
Class `debian-source` is inherited by `conf/distro/deby.conf`.
This class provides an eventhandler to fetch information
from Debian apt repository. This information will be
used for downloading source code.

Tasks
-----

#### do_debian_unpack_extra
This is a task, defined by `debian-package.bbclass` to unpack
Debian source code into one folder.
This task runs after `do_unpack` and before `do_debian_patch`

#### do_debian_patch
This is a task, defined by `debian-package.bbclass` to apply Debian patches.
These Debian patches can be applied by `quilt`,
`dpatch` or manually with `patch`.
This task runs after `do_debian_unpack_extra` and before `do_patch`.

#### debian_source_eventhandler
This is an eventhandler, defined by `debian-source.bbclass`
to generate Debian package source code information: `PV`, `URI`, `checksum`.
These kinds of information are fetched from
`dists/buster/main/source/Sources.xz` in Debian apt repository.
This eventhandler runs when `bb.event.ParseStarted` is fired.

Variables
---------

#### DEBIAN_SRC_URI
URI to fetch Debian package source code.
By default, this variable is generated automatically in
`recipes-debian/sources/<source_name>.inc`.

Example:
```sh
DEBIAN_SRC_URI = " \
    ${DEBIAN_MIRROR}/main/f/flex/flex_2.6.4-6.2.dsc;name=flex_2.6.4-6.2.dsc \
    ${DEBIAN_MIRROR}/main/f/flex/flex_2.6.4.orig.tar.gz;name=flex_2.6.4.orig.tar.gz \
    ${DEBIAN_MIRROR}/main/f/flex/flex_2.6.4-6.2.diff.gz;name=flex_2.6.4-6.2.diff.gz;apply=no \
"
```

#### DEBIAN_UNPACK_DIR
Path to source code directory after unpacked.
This variable is initialized in `debian-package.bbclass`
with default value `$.{WORKDIR}/${BP}`

#### DEBIAN_PATCH_TYPE
Decide action to apply patches for the source package.
Normally, this variable will only need to be set if
patch type cannot be detected by `debian/source/format`.
Possible value:

* `quilt`: if package uses `quilt` for applying patches.
* `dpatch`: if package uses `dpatch` for applying patches.
* `nopatch`: if there is no Debian patch.
* `abnormal`: if none of the three conditions above matched.
  Recipe will need to define its own way to apply patches by
  defining function `debian_patch_abnormal` or overwriting `do_debian_patch`.


#### DEBIAN_QUILT_PATCHES
Path to Debian patches folder, by default is
`${DEBIAN_UNPACK_DIR}/debian/patches`.
In some cases, this variable need to be unset because
`DEBIAN_PATCH_TYPE` is `quilt` but there is no patch.
For example, package `gawk` has `debian/source/format` is `3.0 (quilt)`
but there is no patch in `debian` subfolder.
